We're gonna create some documentation, so
we're gonna install a couple of ad-ons.
Ad-ons are packages that you can install,
and
use with storybook to add
additional capabilities.
We're gonna have a bunch of them,
so let's install them now, npm i,
let me make this bigger here, we're
gonna do Okay, that was my own thing.
Npm i, we're gonna do renew
app storybook slash preset,
create react app, so we're telling story,
but this is a create react app.
We're gonna install actions,
I have to believe that storybook
actions though we'll find out,
And add-on docs.
Okay, so those three and
those are on the website,
feel free to go grab them and
they're using add-on section.
When we add these add-ons
every time we add
an add-on we have to tell
storybook about it, and
we can do that by going to this main
file up here that I just mentioned.
So, anytime we add an add-on
it has to go in here.
So, while that's loading let's
go ahead and do that, so,
lets add our preset create react
app is actually already added here,
so I actually didn't need to install it.
We also have actions and so
I don't know why I just added those but
that's fine, not harming anything.
And then we just need to add our docs, so
@storybook/addon-docs.
This is gonna give us
that documentation for
product management for design to go in and
actually have something nice to look at.
What I'm gonna recommend is that you
actually go over to the course notes and
under the add-ons story here
using add-ons, I have this file,
I have this big block of text here.
This is marked down and this is gonna
be like our fake documentation for
our components, so what I would say
is let's copy this, it's a lot, but
we'll see it rendering and
I'll walk you through it.
So inside of components,
create a new file,
I'm gonna call it buttons.stories.js,
okay?
I'm just gonna copy and
paste all this stuff in and
then we'll walk through
it in just a second.
Okay, so we've imported add-on docs, and
you'll see what all of these packages
are doing in just a second, and
we've also imported our button components.
So at the top here, we've got some
metadata, what's the title of the story,
and what component is this
going to be documenting.
And actually, this should be the MDX,
we're gonna be using MDX which is a way to
write mark down with your JSX, okay?
And so what we need to do now that
we have our documentation added,
I wanna tell stories but,
hey this file could be a js file but
also it could be an mdx file, so
we're gonna add that or operator in there.
Select by stories ending in js or
mdx and let's render those, and
this extension, this file extension
will be MDX, so buttons.stories.mdx.
So now we can actually use markdown to
create documentation for our components.
Every time you add an on on, you're
gonna have to restart your dev server,
it's very unfortunately, especially given
that my computer is very slow today.
Okay, so once you have
npm-installed this addon-docs,
we actually need to go and add it to our
main.js file inside of this addons array.
So this one's special,
we wanna give it an option and
this options configureJSX: true,
just telling it basically that
hey if we have JSX go ahead and
actually recognize that.
So we add our addon-docs
to the addons array, and
then this is just some mark down.
So this is gonna render our mark down
files into nice documentation you
can deploy and use with any stakeholder,
they don't have to just be developer,
they can be designer they
could be product, okay?
And when you run NPM run storybook,
if everything works as expected,
you should now see this.
So taking a look at this real quick,
on our dock site, we have a header just as
here's what buttons are used for,
this is where you would use them.
And then we look down here and
we have this preview element,
preview is coming from our
add-on that we just added.
So it comes from add-on docs,
and then we create a story,
I'm giving this name of primary,
it's our primary button.
You can see here the other store names
are gonna be secondary and tertiary.
These names correspond to
the tabs on the side, so
whatever I change this
to it'll update here.
And, for whatever reason,
let me see, You should have
this secondary tab appear docs,
this is what our add on just added for
us is this document tab, right?
So we can pair the side by side,
we have our title here, so buttons,
here's the text underneath that,
our usage and all of that.
You can even I like props table as
well for all your components, and
this actually,
you can see this is the code for it, okay?
So that was our first add-on docs,
now what you'll notice though,
that our buttons are not actually
retaining any theme, right?
We wanna be able to trigger that, so lets
go add another two plug-ins,two add-ons,
that are gonna allow us to pass
our theme and simulate a theme.
So, in your terminal were gonna
install two more add-ons,
Let me clear this so
it's a little easier to read.
So nom install and those are gonna
be @storybook/addon-backgrounds.
It's gonna allow us to change
the background of our storybook,
and @storybook/addon-contexts,
just like that, okay?
And anytime we add an addon we have to add
it to the addon array inside of main.js,
so while that is installing,
Let's go ahead an add it here,
I probably typed that
wrong addon backgrounds,
that's cuz backgrounds has an S,
seems to be the theme today.
Let's try that again, in the meantime,
I'm gonna go add these,
so @storybook addon-contexts,
this needs to have a register at the end.
So slash register we have to tell story
about that we need to use this, okay?
It's gonna be the same for
background so I'm just gonna copy and
paste that, this is just gonna be changed
to backgrounds, so register both of those.
Now, we actually need to create our
context, so we've told story, but
we want to add this plug in,
let's tell it what we want it to do,
you can use this for language if you wanna
change the language of your application,
we're gonna use it for theme.
So let's create a new file
called context.js, and
we're gonna import a couple of things,
first is
from 'styled-components'.
The second is our themes we need
to actually pass our theme so
import, defaultTheme and
darkTheme from our utils folder.
And then we're just gonna export
an array of different like properties,
and it's gonna be an array of objects.
So each object has a different
configuration, so export const context
=  array so you can have multiple
contexts we're just gonna have one,
it's gonna be an object We
can set icon this one's gonna
be shown in the toolbar, don't need to set
that it's really not useful right now.
For title we wanna give it
themes as our color theme, for
components, we're gonna be using theme
provider that's gonna go into an array.
And now we need to give it
some parameters, so params,
what do we need this theme provider
to kind of switch between.
So the first we're gonna call default
theme, that's the name of it that'll
show up in the toolbar, and the property,
ThemeProvider needs a theme.
So this will be our defaultTheme,
and optionally,
we can pass just one more
argument default: true.
So this will be what it's
originally set to, And
we're gonna do the same for dark theme so
this would be dark theme the props this
will set the theme to dark theme,
and that's it.
So those are our parameters,
I think I messed up a bracket,
Where did I mess it up?
Okay, I have a couple too many,
Theme: defaultTheme.
>> Left of default.
>> Left of default here?
Wait, Yeah,
yeah you're totally right thank you.
That should not be closed there,
there we go,
when it auto like pretties you're like,
yeah, I'm good, awesome.
We're just gonna set like
two more options down here,
so right after the params array here,
add one more object, just the options.
So deep true, this is gonna say hey,
we need to pass this property all the way
through every child component, so
pass our theme all the way
through every single component.
Disable, we don't want
this to be disableable,
that's the word today and
cancelable: False.
So this is not gonna be optional, so
someone brought up a really good
point that I made a mistake.
I actually forgot to wrap my dark theme
within context.js in curly brackets, so
make sure that those are wrapped.
And inside of preview.js,
make sure your backgrounds has an s,
cuz I did just make that mistake and
it didn't actually work, okay?
So now we have our context, and
we can actually pass this, So
we need to make one more file in our
storybook folder to get this to work,
it's gonna be called preview.js.
And this is where we're gonna configure
all of our like decorators, so
a decorator is gonna be what
we use with our addons.
So let's say we're gonna import
[addParameters] from 'storybook/react',
this will all make sense in a second
once we get these parameters.
Add decorator,
that's coming from the same place,
I'm gonna combine those,
Import with contexts,
so we need to actually pass
our context to our decorator.
This is coming from
'@storybook/addon-contexts/react'; cuz
this is a react application.
And let's just import that context we just
made  from 'contexts';.
Cool, so the first parameter we
wanna add is our background, so
let's do addParameters {( so what do
we want to set a dark background when
we have our default theme so
we can see our components and
we wanna set a light background when
we have our dark theme components.
So, backgrounds: [ it's gonna be an array,
so {}name:'Default theme',
is going to have a value: '#ffffff'
of white, so when our components
are dark colored, we want that on
a white background so we can see them.
And this is gonna be the default value,
so we'll set default again to true},.
And the other is just gonna be the 'Dark
theme', so when our components are in
their dark theme, let's set
the background to a Dark Blue #050449.
And the only other thing
that we need to do
to get this to work is
just add a decorator
We want to actually use our theme now.
So with contexts and
pass it the context we just made,
So whenever you add an addon,
you're going to actually have to
restart your storybook server.
So make sure you stop and
restart it, and when you do,
you should have these two up here,
these two little icons are very tiny,
the first one on the left
is going to be our theme.
So if we change to a dark theme
our components disappear and
they have our dark theme.
Obviously we can't see them that's why we
also need to change our background, so
there we go.
Now we actually can see our
components dark theme, and
you can do this for
any theme that you have.